Add Machine Account docs (#598)
onflow/flow: docs/content/node-operation/machine-existing-operator.mdx

---

> title: Machine Account for existing Node Operators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Machine Accounts for Existing Node Operators
```

> sidebar_title: Machine Account for existing Node Operators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_title: Machine Accounts for Existing Node Operators
```

> description: Machine Account for existing Node Operators

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Instructions for existing Node Operators to follow to create a machine account for their collection or consensus nodes.
```

---

> If you are an existing `consensus` or `collection` node operator you will need a [Machine Account]() to participate in epochs. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Flow Epoch Preparation Protocol](/staking/epoch-preparation/) requires that `collection` and `consensus` nodes use an automated [machine account](/staking/qc-dkg/#machine-accounts) to participate in important processes required to start the next epoch. (QC and DKG, respectively)

Starting on Thursday, August 19th 2021, all collector and consensus nodes who register with Flow Port will automatically create and initialize this machine account as part of their node registration.

If you have an existing `consensus` or `collection` node that you registered with Flow Port before Thursday August 19th, you will need to create this Machine Account manually in order to participate in epochs.
```

> This guide will walk you through creating a [Machine Account]() and getting it set up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will walk you through creating a Machine Account and getting it set up.
```

## Downloading Bootstrap Utility

<Callout type="warning">

> If you have downloaded the bootstrapping kit previously, ensure that you do this step again to get the latest copy of the bootstrapping kit since we have made some significant changes to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have downloaded the bootstrapping kit previously, ensure that you do this step again to get the latest copy of the bootstrapping kit since there have been significant changes to it.
```

```shell
$ ./boot-tools/bootstrap machine-account-key -o ./bootstrap
```

```shell:title=Example
$./boot-tools/bootstrap machine-account-key -o ./bootstrap
<nil> INF generated machine account private key
<nil> DBG encoded public machine account key machineAccountPubKey=2743786d1ff1bf7d7026d693a774210eaa54728343859baab62e2df7f71a370651f4c7fd239d07af170e484eedd4f3c2df47103f6c39baf2eb2a50f67bbcba6a
<nil> INF wrote file bootstrap/private-root-information/private-node-info_6f6e98c983dbd9aa69320452949b81abeab2ac591a247f55f19f4dbf0b477d26/node-machine-account-key.priv.json
<nil> INF machine account public key: 0x2743786d1ff1bf7d7026d693a774210eaa54728343859baab62e2df7f71a370651f4c7fd239d07af170e484eedd4f3c2df47103f6c39baf2eb2a50f67bbcba6a

$tree ./bootstrap/
./bootstrap
├── private-root-information
│   └── private-node-info_ab6e0b15837de7e5261777cb65665b318cf3f94492dde27c1ea13830e989bbf9
│       ├── node-info.priv.json
│       └── node-machine-account-key.priv.json
└── public-root-information
    ├── node-id
    └── node-info.pub.ab6e0b15837de7e5261777cb65665b318cf3f94492dde27c1ea13830e989bbf9.json

3 directories, 4 files
```

> ## Create Machine Account address 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create Machine Account
```

> You will now need to copy the Machine account public key and head over to [Flow Port]() to submit a transaction to create a Machine Account address. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will now need to copy the Machine account public key and head over to [Flow Port](/flow-port/staking-guide/) to submit a transaction to create a Machine Account. 

This process will create your machine account for you and show you your machine account's address, which you will need to save for the next step.
```

Starting on Thursday, August 19th 2021, all collector and consensus nodes who register with Flow Port will automatically create and initialize this machine account as part of their node registration.

If you have an existing `consensus` or `collection` node that you registered with Flow Port before Thursday August 19th, you will need to create this Machine Account manually in order to participate in epochs.
This guide will walk you through creating a Machine Account and getting it set up.

## Downloading Bootstrap Utility

<Callout type="warning">
  If you have downloaded the bootstrapping kit previously, ensure that you do
  this step again to get the latest copy of the bootstrapping kit since there
  have been significant changes to it.
</Callout>

```shell
curl -sL -O storage.googleapis.com/flow-genesis-bootstrap/boot-tools.tar
tar -xvf boot-tools.tar
```

```shell:title=CheckSHA256
sha256sum ./boot-tools/bootstrap
06c0e8a4350a1fb2cc2ece9b62f6537d23902ddd214ff3fe4db58198be265a0e  ./boot-tools/bootstrap

sha256sum ./boot-tools/transit

> e3599147a358539ff45a96af9a1a89568be9ddc5e210d42edd933871781378c9  ./boot-tools/transit

Reviewer 2: Has the new version of `boot-tools` been released yet? 

⚠️ Let's make sure we push up the new version before releasing these docs, and make sure the hashes are updated if needed.

```shell
$ ./boot-tools/bootstrap machine-account-key -o ./bootstrap
```

```shell:title=Example
$./boot-tools/bootstrap machine-account-key -o ./bootstrap
<nil> INF generated machine account private key
<nil> DBG encoded public machine account key machineAccountPubKey=2743786d1ff1bf7d7026d693a774210eaa54728343859baab62e2df7f71a370651f4c7fd239d07af170e484eedd4f3c2df47103f6c39baf2eb2a50f67bbcba6a
<nil> INF wrote file bootstrap/private-root-information/private-node-info_6f6e98c983dbd9aa69320452949b81abeab2ac591a247f55f19f4dbf0b477d26/node-machine-account-key.priv.json
<nil> INF machine account public key: 0x2743786d1ff1bf7d7026d693a774210eaa54728343859baab62e2df7f71a370651f4c7fd239d07af170e484eedd4f3c2df47103f6c39baf2eb2a50f67bbcba6a

$tree ./bootstrap/
./bootstrap
├── private-root-information
│   └── private-node-info_ab6e0b15837de7e5261777cb65665b318cf3f94492dde27c1ea13830e989bbf9
│       ├── node-info.priv.json
│       └── node-machine-account-key.priv.json
└── public-root-information
    ├── node-id
    └── node-info.pub.ab6e0b15837de7e5261777cb65665b318cf3f94492dde27c1ea13830e989bbf9.json

3 directories, 4 files
```

## Create Machine Account

> You will now need to copy the Machine account public key and head over to [Flow Port](/flow-port/staking-guide/) to submit a transaction to create a Machine Account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will now need to copy the Machine account public key displayed in the terminal output and head over to [Flow Port](/flow-port/staking-guide/) to submit a transaction to create a Machine Account. For example, from the example above, we would copy `0x2743786d1ff1bf7d7026d693a774210eaa54728343859baab62e2df7f71a370651f4c7fd239d07af170e484eedd4f3c2df47103f6c39baf2eb2a50f67bbcba6a` from this line:
/```
<nil> INF machine account public key: 0x2743786d1ff1bf7d7026d693a774210eaa54728343859baab62e2df7f71a370651f4c7fd239d07af170e484eedd4f3c2df47103f6c39baf2eb2a50f67bbcba6a
/```
```

You can follow the guide [here](/flow-port/machine-account-address) .

## Finalize Machine Account setup

You will now need to use the `bootstrap` utlity to run `machine-account` with the created address to finalize the set up of your Machine account.

```shell
$ ./boot-tools/bootstrap machine-account --address ${YOUR_MACHINE_ACCOUNT_ADDRESS} -o ./bootstrap
```

```shell:title=Example
$./boot-tools/bootstrap machine-account --address 0x1de23de44985c7e7 -o ./bootstrap
<nil> INF read machine account private key json
<nil> DBG encoded public machine account key machineAccountPubKey=2743786d1ff1bf7d7026d693a774210eaa54728343859baab62e2df7f71a370651f4c7fd239d07af170e484eedd4f3c2df47103f6c39baf2eb2a50f67bbcba6a
<nil> INF wrote file bootstrap/private-root-information/private-node-info_6f6e98c983dbd9aa69320452949b81abeab2ac591a247f55f19f4dbf0b477d26/node-machine-account-info.priv.json

$tree ./bootstrap/
./bootstrap
├── private-root-information
│   └── private-node-info_ab6e0b15837de7e5261777cb65665b318cf3f94492dde27c1ea13830e989bbf9
│       ├── node-info.priv.json

> │       └── node-machine-account-key.priv.json

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't `node-machine-account-info.priv.json` appear in the output here?

---
title: Machine Accounts for Existing Node Operators
sidebar_title: Machine Accounts for Existing Node Operators
description: Instructions for existing Node Operators to follow to create a machine account for their collection or consensus nodes.
---

The [Flow Epoch Preparation Protocol](/staking/epoch-preparation/) requires that `collection` and `consensus` nodes use an automated [machine account](/staking/qc-dkg/#machine-accounts) to participate in important processes required to start the next epoch. (QC and DKG, respectively)

Starting on Thursday, August 19th 2021, all collector and consensus nodes who register with Flow Port will automatically create and initialize this machine account as part of their node registration.

> If you have an existing `consensus` or `collection` node that you registered with Flow Port before Thursday August 19th, you will need to create this Machine Account manually in order to participate in epochs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have an existing `consensus` or `collection` node that you registered with Flow Port before Thursday August 19th, you will need to create this Machine Account manually in order to participate in epochs. You will need to create one Machine Account for each `consensus` or `collection` node that you operate.
```

> This guide will walk you through creating a Machine Account and getting it set up.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide will walk you through creating a Machine Account and getting it set up.

<Callout type="warning">
  During this process you will generate a new private key which will have sole control over your machine account.
  This private key will be stored on the machine you use to run your node, alongside your staking and networking keys.
  Loss of any of these keys (staking, networking, or machine account) will require un-staking and re-staking to continue participating in the Flow network.
</Callout>
```

## Downloading Bootstrap Utility

<Callout type="warning">
  If you have downloaded the bootstrapping kit previously, ensure that you do
  this step again to get the latest copy of the bootstrapping kit since there
  have been significant changes to it.
</Callout>

```shell
curl -sL -O storage.googleapis.com/flow-genesis-bootstrap/boot-tools.tar
tar -xvf boot-tools.tar
```

```shell:title=CheckSHA256
sha256sum ./boot-tools/bootstrap
06c0e8a4350a1fb2cc2ece9b62f6537d23902ddd214ff3fe4db58198be265a0e  ./boot-tools/bootstrap

sha256sum ./boot-tools/transit
e3599147a358539ff45a96af9a1a89568be9ddc5e210d42edd933871781378c9  ./boot-tools/transit
```

## Generate Machine Account key

> You will need to generate a Machine account private key using the `bootstrap` utility.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will need to generate a Machine account private key using the `bootstrap` utility.

<Callout type="warning">
  Ensure you run the following commands on the machine you use to run your node software.
  The bootstrap directory passed to the `-o` flag must be the same bootstrap directory used by your node.
  The default location is `/var/flow/bootstrap`, but double-check your setup before continuing.
</Callout>
```

<nil> INF machine account public key: 0x2743786d1ff1bf7d7026d693a774210eaa54728343859baab62e2df7f71a370651f4c7fd239d07af170e484eedd4f3c2df47103f6c39baf2eb2a50f67bbcba6a

$tree ./bootstrap/
./bootstrap
├── private-root-information
│   └── private-node-info_ab6e0b15837de7e5261777cb65665b318cf3f94492dde27c1ea13830e989bbf9
│       ├── node-info.priv.json
│       └── node-machine-account-key.priv.json
└── public-root-information
    ├── node-id
    └── node-info.pub.ab6e0b15837de7e5261777cb65665b318cf3f94492dde27c1ea13830e989bbf9.json

3 directories, 4 files
```

## Create Machine Account

You will now need to copy the Machine account public key displayed in the terminal output and head over to [Flow Port](/flow-port/staking-guide/) to submit a transaction to create a Machine Account. For example, from the example above, we would copy `0x2743786d1ff1bf7d7026d693a774210eaa54728343859baab62e2df7f71a370651f4c7fd239d07af170e484eedd4f3c2df47103f6c39baf2eb2a50f67bbcba6a` from this line:
/```
<nil> INF machine account public key: 0x2743786d1ff1bf7d7026d693a774210eaa54728343859baab62e2df7f71a370651f4c7fd239d07af170e484eedd4f3c2df47103f6c39baf2eb2a50f67bbcba6a

> /```

Reviewer 2: Sorry, you will need to remove the `/` characters here. I suspect this is what is causing the build to fail as well. It seems I cannot suggest any string containing ` ``` ` without exiting the suggestion block!

This process will create your machine account for you and show you your machine account's address, which you will need to save for the next step.

## Finalize Machine Account setup

> You will now need to use the `bootstrap` utlity to run `machine-account` with the created address to finalize the set up of your Machine account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will now need to use the `bootstrap` utility to run `machine-account` with the created address to finalize the set up of your Machine account.
```
